(1) Where, in the course of any inquiry into, or trial of, an offence, it
appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has
committed any offence for which such person could be tried together with
the accused, the Court may proceed against such person for the offence
which he appears to have committed. Since these criminal petitions arise out of the same crime,

both the petitions are being disposed of together with a common

order. 16.   An email was sent by Kim Franks to Respondent No.3         on

14.05.2021 as Allscripts Healthcare, LLC did not intend to extend

the SOW, Respondent No.3 has to cease the use of Allscripts

Healthcare, LLC's materials, software and confidential Information.

In view of the pending expiry of SOW, Allscripts Healthcare, LLC

revoked the administrative access that had been provided to

Respondent No.3.    Pursuant to the SOW, several days after the

administrative rights of respondent No.3 were revoked, (after the

expiry of SOW), the Respondent no.3 reached out to Mr.Jeff Franks

on 19-05-2021 and advised him that respondent No.3's ability to

administer its Office 365 account had been impacted by the

change, for which, Mr.Franks responded and agreed to work with

Respondent No.3 for which a reply of Thank You was sent by

Respondent No.3. Thereafter, on 17.05.2021 a complaint was filed

by Allscripts Healthcare LLC against inter alia respondent No.3

before the United States District Court for the District of Delaware

alleging violation of contractual obligations and misappropriation

of the trade secrets of Allsripts Healthcare LLC. The complaint was

later amended on 14.06.2021 and thereafter on 06.08.2021. The

subject matter of the USA court proceedings is with regard to the
                                   7



issue of access of Allscripts Healthcare LLC's Mobile Patient

Experience and Microsoft Azure Tenant, wherein the Respondent

No.3 have entered appearance and also filed counter claim in the

USA court proceedings. 19.   It is further contended that the respondent No.3 on

30.07.2021 also sent a legal notice to Allscripts Healthcare LLC,
                                      8



Allscripts (India) LLP and Allscripts Healthcare Technologies Pvt.

Ltd., alleging that the recipients had stolen Respondent No.3's data

and demanded the return of respondent No.3's stolen IP. All the

recipients duly responded to the above-mentioned legal notice.

Further they have reiterated that they are separate and distinct

entities from Allscripts Healthcare LLC and that they do not have

any relation with respondent No.3 or the SOW.                   Though the

Allscripts Healthcare LLC sent 3 letters to the respondent No.3

through their USA Counsel requesting them to clarify/detail

information breached, but there has been no reply thereto, that

itself indicates that it is a counter blast case. 20.   The petitioner/accused No.1 apprehending arrest, by virtue

of being the designated partner of Allscripts (India) LLP, filed W.P.

No.14029 of 2021 challenging the issuance of Section 41 A Cr.P.C.

notice before this Hon'ble Court. This court vide its order dated

16.07.2021 had prima facie noted that Allscripts Healthcare LLC,

USA and Allscripts (India) LLP were different entities and that the

petitioner was not concerned with administrative affairs of

Allscripts Healthcare LLC, USA and accordingly directed the

respondent No.2 to not to take any coercive steps against him

including arrest till the next date of hearing and extended from

time to time, and is in operation. 22.   On 20.09.2021 the respondent No.2 filed the charge sheet

against inter alia petitioner (accused NO.1) under Sections 43, 65,

66, 66-B, 66-C, 66-D of the IT Act and Section 204, 120 IPC before

the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Vishakhapatnam which is being

challenged in the present petition. 29.       Further the petitioner relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Ravindranatha Bajpe V.Mangalore Special

Economic zone Ltd.,1 it is held that the issuing summons or

process against a person is a very serious matter and therefore,

unless there are specific allegations and the role attributed to each

accused more than the bald statement, the Magistrate ought not to

have issued the process. Therefore, in the instant case, the order

taking cognizance and issuing summons is a non-speaking

mechanical order without any reasons and application of mind,

thus liable to be quashed. 31.    Further it is contended that the 3rd respondent, as per the

agreement made on 18.05.2018, has fulfilled all the terms of the

agreement    under       the    project    scope    and   continued     until
                                     12



17.05.2021.   The 3rd respondent received an email from Mr.Kim

Franks, VP, Consumer Engagement of Allscripts group from the

email address [email protected] on 14.05.2021 informing

that they are not renewing the agreement dated 18.05.2018.

Therefore, the agreement was terminated as on 14.05.2021. Since

the   termination   of    the   agreement,   on    numerous occasions

Allscripts group and its officials have breached the privacy of the

3rd   respondent    and     removed/copied        the   3rd   respondent's

confidential data from the 3rd respondent's Azure tenant in India.

That the Allscripts group also disabled administrative access of the

3rd respondent's users to its own Azure tenant from Office in

Vishakhapatnam illegally and without their consent.             Therefore,

the respondent No.3 have engaged support of Microsoft and its

resellers in order to restore access and admin privileges to the

tenant it rightfully has owned for the last 6 years.               The 3rd

respondent has documented evidence of unauthorized and illegal

activities of the Allscripts group on 19.05.2021 and on 21.05.2021

within the 3rd respondent's Azure tenant in India.            These illegal

activities are punishable under Indian Penal Code, 1860 and

Information Technology Act, 2000. Therefore, the 3rd respondent

filed a criminal complaint at Cyber Crime Police Station in

Visakhapatnam city, Andhra Pradesh on 31.05.2021 for the

offences of theft, mischief, forgery, cheating, hacking, cyber crimes,

criminal conspiracy and criminal breach of trust under sections

378, 408, 420, 425, 426, 468 r/w 120 B of Indian penal Code,

1860 and under Sections 43, 65 and 66 of Information Technology

Act, 2000, which is registered as F.I.R.No.91 of 2021 under

sections 65, 66 of Information Technology Act, 2000.
                                    13 39.   Since the petitioners has deleted/tampered with the evidence

to hide their involvement with the help of A3 and A8, all the

documentary evidence, which is crucial to determine the criminal

conspiracy and their involvement in the crime, to cover the role of

the petitioners in the crime, therefore, the conduct of the

petitioners satisfies the essential ingredients under Section 204 of

IPC and the petitioner conspired to tamper and steal the User

Interface Code, confidential data and intellectual property of the

respondent No.3, which attracts the ingredients under Section 65,

66, 66-B, 66-C, 66-D of Information Technology Act, 200 and

Section 204, 120-B of Indian Penal Code, 1860. 44.      Based on the statement of the complainant, the Investigation

Officer addressed a letter on 26.06.2021, to Microsoft Authorities

to confirm the Azure Tenant Cloud ownership. Then the Microsoft

Authorities replied on 19.07.2021 that, "the customer is solely in
                                    19



control of the administrator account, which allows them to retrieve

the required information more quickly             and efficiently than

Microsoft", it is proved that the rightful owner of the Azure tenant

is M/s.MahathiSoftware Pvt. Ltd. Basing on that Inspector of

Police, Cyber Crime Police Station, Visakhapatnam city served a

160 Cr.P.C. notice on 20.07.2021. Thus, the primary evidence of

all the witnesses confirmed the prima facie case against the above

noted accused. 51.     Further averred that            Jaydeep Madhukar Wakankar

Petitioner/A1/deleted/tampered with the evidence to hide his

involvement with the help of A2 and A3 and on the advice of A8,
                                   23



during the examination of Mr.NiharSheth, the Inspector of Police,

Cyber Crime Police Station found one email dated 02.09.2021

addressed             from             Ms.Catherine           Spector

([email protected]) to Mr.NiharSheth wherein she

has stated that "not stay at your own residence but rather try to

stay with a friend or relative for the moment to avoid the police

coming to you and please don't disclose your location, they also

suggest you to turn off your primary cell phone and not 'use' it but

rather 'find' an alternative phone to use..." 57.      To support his contentions, he has relied on the judgments

following :- "32. Section 81 of the IT Act also specifically provides that the
         provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
         inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being
         in force. All provisions will have their play and significance, if the
         alleged offence pertains to offence of electronic record. It has to be
         borne in mind that IT Act is a special enactment. It has special
         provisions. Section 292 IPC makes offence sale of obscene books,
         etc. but once the offence has a nexus or connection with the
         electronic record the protection and effect of Section 79 cannot be
         ignored and negated. We are inclined to think so as it is a special
         provision for a specific purpose and the Act has to be given effect to
         so as to make the protection effective and true to the legislative


3
    2017 2 SCC 18
                                             26



            intent. This is the mandate behind Section 81 of the IT Act. The
            additional protection granted by the IT Act would apply." (iv) The finding against the person facing prosecution in the
            adjudication proceedings is not binding on the proceeding for
            criminal prosecution; (vi) The finding in the adjudication proceedings in favour of the
            person facing trial for identical violation will depend upon the nature
            of finding. If the exoneration in adjudication proceedings is on
            technical ground and not on merit, prosecution may continue; and (vii) In case of exoneration, however, on merits where the allegation
            is found to be not sustainable at all and the person held innocent,
            criminal prosecution on the same set of facts and circumstances
            cannot be allowed to continue, the underlying principle being the
            higher standard of proof in criminal cases. 58.         As per the above judgments, it clarifies that even when the

adjudication proceedings are pending, criminal prosecution can be

launched simultaneously, as contended by the petitioners that the

litigation is pending before the United States District Court of

Delaware is not a bar to initiate the criminal proceedings for the




4
    (2011) 3 SCC 581
                                     27



offences committed by A1 to A8 and both the proceedings can be

conducted simultaneously. 59.       Further submitted that in view of Section 173 (8) of Cr.P.C.

and Section 319 Cr.P.C., there is no bar for the investigation officer

or for the concerned court, to add accused/ or file any

supplementary charge sheet based on the further investigation.

Therefore, in view of the said provisions and based on the factual

aspects of the present case, there is no ground warranting the

interference of this Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., hence

requested for dismissal. 60.       On perusal of the pleadings as well as the submissions of the

learned senior counsel, though there is force in the contentions

made by the learned senior counsel Sri Sidharth Luthra, that in

the present case the respondents, without making the Company as

an accused, they cannot proceed against the petitioners, in view of

the ratio decided by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Aneeta Hada vs.

Godfather Travels & Tours pvt. ltd.5 67.     Considering the observations of the Apex Court in the above

referred judgments and also observations of the court in Sunil

Bharti Mittal vs CBI6 this Court feels that there are no grounds to

interfere under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. to quash the proceedings

only on the ground that the Company is not made a party -

co-accused. 68.     But as contended by the learned senior counsel Sri Sidharth

Luthra that there are no specific overacts allegations made against

the petitioners in the complaint, except stating that the petitioners

are using the same e-mail portal and even the allegations made in

the charge sheet contains no specific overt acts, hence it is vague

in nature, however, the person who has been maliciously charged

can file a discharge petition before the court, if the allegations

which have been made against him are false, the Code of Criminal

Procedure provides the provisions for filing a discharge application,

6
    2015 SCC 609
                                      31



if the evidence given before the Court is not sufficient to satisfy the

offence and in the absence of any prima facie case against him, he

is entitled to be discharged. 69.     Considering    the   above    submissions     as   well   as   the

observations    made    by   the   Hon'ble   Apex Court      in   various

judgements referred above, both the criminal petitions are

dismissed and the petitioners are given liberty to file discharge

application under Section 227 of Cr.P.C., before the trial court. If

such application is filed by the petitioners, the trial court shall

dispose of it as expeditiously as possible within one month, without

influencing the observations made by this court in the present

petitions. There shall be no order as to costs.
​
​

